General design principles (approaches) of the CRIS-like systems for scientific R&D support
There are different approaches to define the structure of research activities and the research lifecycle [15, 16]. The review of these approaches, as well as the analysis of research activities, allows defining its basic types, which regulate its structure and are invariant in relation to the domain area, content, methods, and approaches of the research activity. The basic types of research activities are [16]:
-	Descriptive vs. Analytical: Descriptive research includes surveys and fact-finding enquiries of different kinds. The major purpose of descriptive research is the description of the state of affairs as it exists at present. In social science and business research, we quite often use the term Ex post facto research for descriptive research studies. The main characteristic of this method is that the researcher has no control over the variables; he can only report what has happened or what is happening. Most ex-post facto research projects are used for descriptive studies in which the researcher seeks to measure such items as, for example, the frequency of shopping, preferences of people, or similar data. Ex post facto studies also include attempts by researchers to discover causes even when they cannot control the variables. The methods of research utilized in descriptive research are survey methods of all kinds, including comparative and correlational methods. In analytical research, on the other hand, the researcher must use facts or information already available and analyze these to make a critical evaluation of the material.
-	Applied vs. Fundamental: Research can either be applied (or action) research or fundamental (to basic or pure) research. Applied research aims at finding a solution for an immediate problem facing a society or an industrial/business organization, whereas fundamental research is mainly concerned with generalizations and with the formulation of a theory. Research concerning some natural phenomenon or relating to pure mathematics are examples of fundamental research. Similarly, research studies, concerning human behavior carried on with a view to generalize about human behavior, are also examples of fundamental research, but research aimed at certain conclusions (say, a solution) facing a concrete social or business problem is an example of applied research. Research to identify social, economic, or political trends that may affect an institution or the copy research (research to find out whether certain communications will be read and understood) or the marketing research or evaluation research are examples of applied research. Thus, the central aim of the applied research is to discover a solution for some pressing practical problem, whereas basic research is directed towards finding information that has a broad base of applications and thus, adds to the already existing organized body of scientific knowledge.
-	Quantitative vs. Qualitative: Quantitative research is based on the measurement of quantity or amount. It is applicable to phenomena that can be expressed in terms of quantity. Qualitative research, on the other hand, is concerned with the qualitative phenomenon, i.e., phenomena relating to or involving quality or kind. For instance, when we are interested in investigating the reasons for human behavior (i.e., why people think or do certain things), we quite often talk of ‘Motivation Research’, an important type of qualitative research. This type of research aims at discovering the underlying motives and desires, using in-depth interviews for the purpose. Other techniques of such research are word association tests, sentence completion tests, story completion tests and similar other projective techniques. Attitude or opinion research i.e., research designed to find out how people feel or what they think about a subject or institution is also qualitative research. Qualitative research is especially important in the behavioral sciences where the aim is to discover the underlying motives of human behavior. Through such research, we can analyze the various factors which motivate people to behave in a manner or which make people like or dislike a thing. It may be stated, however, that to apply qualitative research in practice is relatively a difficult job and therefore, while doing such research, one should seek guidance from experimental psychologists.
-	Conceptual vs. Empirical: Conceptual research is that related to some abstract idea(s) or theory. It is generally used by philosophers and thinkers to develop new concepts or to reinterpret existing ones. On the other hand, empirical research relies on experience or observation alone, often without due regard for system and theory. It is data-based research, coming up with conclusions which are capable of being verified by observation or experiment. We can also call it as the experimental type of research. In such a research, it is necessary to get at facts firsthand, at their source, and actively to go about doing certain things to stimulate the production of desired information. In such a research, the researcher must first provide himself with a working hypothesis or guess as to the probable results. He then works to get enough facts (data) to prove or disprove his hypothesis. He then sets up experimental designs which he thinks will manipulate the persons or the materials concerned so as to bring forth the desired information. Such research is thus characterized by the experimenter’s control over the variables under study and his deliberate manipulation of one of them to study its effects. Empirical research is appropriate when the proof is sought that certain variables affect other variables in some way. Evidence gathered through experiments or empirical studies is today considered to be the most powerful support possible for a given hypothesis.
-	Some Other Types of Research: All other types of research are variations of one or more of the above-stated approaches, based on either the purpose of research, or the time required to accomplish research, on the environment in which research is done, or based on some other similar factor. Form the point of view of time, we can think of research either as one-time research or longitudinal research. In the former case, the research is confined to a single time-period, whereas in the latter case the research is carried on over several time-periods. Research can be field-setting research or laboratory research or simulation research, depending upon the environment in which it is to be carried out. Research can as well be understood as clinical or diagnostic research. Such research follows case-study methods or in-depth approaches to reach the basic causal relations. Such studies usually go deep into the causes of things or events that interest us, using very small samples and very deep probing data gathering devices. The research may be exploratory or it may be formalized. The objective of exploratory research is the development of hypotheses rather than their testing, whereas formalized research studies are those with substantial structure and with specific hypotheses to be tested. Historical research is that which utilizes historical sources like documents, remains, etc. to study events or ideas of the past, including the philosophy of persons and groups at any remote point of time. Research can also be classified as conclusion-oriented and decision-oriented. While doing conclusion-oriented research, a researcher is free to pick up a problem, redesign the enquiry as he proceeds and is prepared to conceptualize as he wishes. Decision-oriented research is always for the need of a decision maker and the researcher, in this case, is not free to embark upon research according to his own inclination. Operations research is an example of decision-oriented research since it is a scientific method of providing executive departments with a quantitative basis for decisions regarding operations under their control.
The general principle that should be considered when designing CRIS-like systems for scientific research and technical research creativity support is that the system must fully cover all the basic types of research activities, implement the full research lifecycle. Based on this basic principle can identify the main entities of CRIS-like systems [17]:
1.	User with all related attributes;
2.	Organizations which are related to users;
3.	Organizations and foundations (research funders etc.) that provide grant support for scientific research;
4.	Scientific communities with the ability to carry on a discussion between united users (analogues of chats and forums);
5.	Scientific journals and publishers;
6.	Bibliographies that can be created both by the users themselves and by the communities;
7.	Publications of users that can be linked to publishers and periodicals;
8.	Projects that can integrate users, bibliographies, documents, and general data, and can also be related to grants of research funders and organizations.
It should be noted that all these and other entities that may appear in the future should be able to communicate with each other. This communication will allow the flexible and comprehensive solution of the tasks of organizing of co-operative research activities by communities of scientists, to receive various reports, for example, lists of publication, lists of publisher’s journals, statistical reports on the research activity of employees, etc. The integrated system should be a universal instrument or utility toolkit not only for the purposes of supporting scientific research but also for the analysis of the activities of scientific organizations, foundations, and publishers.
Another important principle for developing the CRIS-like system is the choice of a user identification model. There is no need to create multiple user accounts in different network services. For identification, it is suitable to choose one of the open identifying system: Open Researcher and Contributor ID (ORCID) [18], ResearcherID [19] or OpenID [20]. For scientists, it is suitable to choose ORCID – is a nonproprietary alphanumeric code to uniquely identify scientific and other academic authors and contributors. It is implemented in the open project ORCID. The ORCID organization offers an open and independent registry intended to be the de facto standard for contributor identification in research and academic publishing. The ORCID community includes everyone in the research community who recognizes the need for researchers to be uniquely identified and connected with their contributions and affiliations.

This   means individual researchers, organizations involved in research – universities, laboratories, commercial research companies, research funders, publishers, patent offices, data repositories, professional societies, and more – as well as organizations that build systems that support information management among and between these groups. Third-party tools allow the migration of content from other services into ORCID, for example, Mendeley2ORCID, for Mendeley.

934845-593 453 4535 ---- 3 @#%#$%^&$ @#4@#%^~~~#^ 
934845-593 453 4535 ---- 3 @#%#$%
            *() (*&^ %$#(    :'"))
	934845-593 453 453o5 ---- 3 @#%#$%,,,,^&$ @#4@#%^~~~#^ 
    	934845-593 453 4535 ---- 3 @#%#$%^&$ @#4 , , , . . .@#%^~~~#^ 	
	934845-593 453 4535 ---- 3 @#%#$%^&$ @#4@#%^~~~#^ 	